---
layout: post
title: "TryHackMe - OSI Model"
date: 2021-10-13T12:02:00+02:00
categories: ["TryHackMe"]
tags: ["thm"]
---

| Key   | Value 
| ----: | :--------
| Room  | [osimodelzi](https://tryhackme.com/room/osimodelzi)
| Date  | 2021-10-13
| User  | [wastebasket](https://tryhackme.com/p/wastebasket)

## Task 1: What is the OSI Model? 

What does the "OSI" in "OSI Model" stand for?

`Open Systems Interconnection`

How many layers (in digits) does the OSI model have?

`7`

What is the key term for when pieces of information get added to data?

`encapsulation`

## Task 2: Layer 7 - Application 

What is the name of this Layer?

`application`

What is the technical term that is given to the name of the software that users interact with?

`Graphical User Interface`

## Task 3: Layer 6 - Presentation 

What is the name of this Layer?

`presentation`

What is the main purpose that this Layer acts as?

`translator`

## Task 4: Layer 5 - Session 

What is the name of this Layer?

`session`

What is the technical term for when a connection is successfully established?

`session`

What is the technical term for "small chunks of data"?

`packets`

## Task 5: Layer 4 - Transport 

What is the name of this Layer?

`transport`

What does TCP stand for?

`Transmission Control Protocol`

What does UDP stand for?

`User Datagram Protocol`

What protocol guarantees the accuracy of data?

`tcp`

What protocol doesn't care if data is received or not by the other device?

`udp`

What protocol would an application such as an email client use?

`tcp`

What protocol would an application that downloads files use?

`tcp`

What protocol would an application that streams video use?

`udp`

## Task 6: Layer 3 - Network

What is the name of this Layer?

`network`

Will packets take the most optimal route across a network? (Y/N)

`y`

What does the acronym "OSPF" stand for?

`Open Shortest Path First`

What does the acronym "RIP" stand for?

`Routing Information Protocol`

What type of addresses are dealt with at this layer?

`IP addresses`

## Task 7: Layer 2 - Data Link 

What is the name of this Layer?

`data link`

What is the name of the piece of hardware that all networked devices come with?

`Network Interface Card`

## Task 8: Layer 1 - Physical 

What is the name of this Layer?

`physical`

What is the name of the numbering system that is both 0's and 1's?

`binary`

What is the name of the cables that are used to connect devices?

`ethernet cables`

## Task 9: Practical - OSI Game 

Escape the dungeon to retrieve the flag. What is the flag? 

`THM{OSI_DUNGEON_ESCAPED}`

## Task 10: Continue Your Learning: Packets & Frames 
